so this is basically what is happening
um in a uh an example over here where we
have an input
image uh and uh we are actually sliding
a kernel a 3X3 kernel uh and we are
getting an an an output feature map so
the input feature map here is uh just
has one we will be calling sometimes
this uh uh depth Channel um
and uh the output feature map has again
one channel over
here and uh what we have here is we have
a couple of things that we need to
introduce as terms in uh convolutional
uh operations that we actually doing and
inside the convolutional new networks so
the first is the form uh of the the
concept of padding and uh typically we
are padding uh the U input uh feature
Maps uh in order to uh do two things uh
we achieving two things probably you
have noticed that in in an earlier kind
of discussion or we had the uh operation
of cross correlation operation in this
in this kind of image over here uh the
output feature map was always smaller in
terms of speciaal dimensions compared to
the input feature map and uh it is
evidently so uh because the only way
that this output feature MK can be
exactly the same size as the input is
when the kernel is 1 by one so when the
Kel has a special extent of 1 by one uh
then we have exactly that uh situation
but in in most cases where the can won't
be one by one we will expect this output
feature maps to shrink in terms of
spatial content and we do not want them
to shrink too much uh because sooner or
later uh we will be running out of
spatial Dimensions uh in our outputs and
therefore we cannot really go deep to
construct deep architectures in these
networks so what we expect to do what we
are have done is we have with padding we
are trying to manage this special extent
reduction on one hand uh as you can see
if we had this padding over here uh then
uh the uh output feature map is uh going
to be uh much larger uh than otherwise
so if you can imagine that without a
padding uh then this uh uh sort of
output feature map would actually be um
I can't really uh sort of tell you
exactly the dimensions but if you do the
if you see the sort of if you do it
visually then you can actually see it's
going to be probably something like a a
3X3 uh output uh now the um uh sort of
uh another another advantage of padding
is that we allow the Kel to actually
move into locations which would not be
able to move otherwise so a kernel as we
discussed a bit earlier contains some
values and we would like all of the
pixels including the edge pixels of the
input feature map to be able to be
correlated with all of the other pixels
of the all of the of the pixels of the
Kel and therefore uh padding allows us
to um to to do so um otherwise you can
imagine this red kernel over here will
actually be only be able to um correlate
with uh those three pixels of the input
feature map now uh this pixel over here
can be correlated with both this pixel
of the kernel and that pixel of the and
this pixel and this pixel of the sort of
uh uh Kel that we have so we have um the
ability to uh sort of get more
information especially towards the edges
of that input feature map with
padding another uh parameter that we
should uh also uh sort of understand is
this kind of stride so stride is uh the
just like the stride that you as you
walk um it this here actually refers to
uh the uh number of
pixels uh that you are skipping over uh
the uh in order for you to be able to uh
do the next correlation so here you see
two locations of that kernel uh in that
location and the blue location the red
location the blue location if your
stride was one uh then the blue K have
been right
here uh and while with a stride of two
uh then we don't uh get one correlation
operation for every pixel of the input
feature map and this is obviously is
helping us to manage uh the complexity
of these filters in fact goes slightly
to the opposite direction of what we
have said earlier in a sense that in
some instances we prefer to uh get for
some of the layers uh of the
convolutional neuron uh the The Stride
parameter to be larger than one
typically The Stride parameter of uh
height and width um are going to be the
same uh so that's what you see over here
bottom line is that uh all of these
parameters and far more that are to
follow are hyper parameters and uh we
are uh going to be optimizing them uh
for using hyperparameter optimization in
order for us to define the complete
architecture of of of a
CNN here you see some animations that
kind of reinforce what we have uh just
uh quoted Ed without padding uh the uh
Kel the output feature map is going to
be U potentially significantly reduced
in terms of spatial extent something
will make uh any subsequent um cor
correlation with Kels uh you know not
very useful uh with padding this is we
avoid that and uh here we actually have
uh padding combinations of padding and
stride so I suggest that you study this
kind of animations to just get the gist
as to what padding and stride are
actually offering to us but uh now the
time has come to look at uh the
operation of the convolutional neuron
Network um and in fact the describe if
you like the single convolutional kind
of layer um in in detail we will uh
start drawing a snapshot of a CNN layer
operation that will actually help us to
understand the general case
where we have uh input U and output
feature Maps coming into uh the CNN
layer uh but however these input and
output feature Maps possess different
depths and this is another parameter
that we have to uh understand you know
that the we are responsible for
Designing these layers with uh that that
the depth of uh what we will produce is
our responsibility to uh to to design so
let's uh write now uh draw if you like a
a picture of that CNN uh layer in
operation okay let me call it the the
snapshot we will see just a single
snapshot of that
layer and this will also help us
understand the U what is the
convolutional neuron we already have
seen the um sort of sigmoidal kind of
neuron um now we will see in the in the
fully connected dense layer
architectures now we'll see the
convolutional neuron in front of us so
the snapshot let me call it snapshot of
a
CNN of a CNN
layer
operation all right so let's uh draw now
the general case as we discussed that we
have an input volume
this input
volume um is uh associated with h uh the
output feature map of an earlier layer
let's call that layer l minus one this
is basically the feature map that was
generated by the previous layer in
general and we'll have a depth of
capital m l minus
one it will have some kind of width
let me uh make sure that you can
actually
see here this is WL minus
one
and uh the height over here would
actually be um okay this is a depth and
the height over here will actually be
h l minus one all right so that's
basically the dimensions of my incoming
volume um and this incoming volume
has some kind of resolution in terms of
number of height and width pixels let me
just draw them quickly because we would
like
to now draw the U what will be the
output of out of this operation which is
the output feature map now the
um output is going to be generated at
this specific moment in time I have in
general a filter that
has 3x3 special extent it is located
let's say here at this moment in time
because that's why you call it a
snapshot and uh it has um some depth I
want to discuss a little bit the depth
what makes sense for this depth of the
filter to be uh but it when it is
located over here uh for sure I'm
expecting to have some output feature
map this output feature map will be uh
probably
uh smaller in terms of spal extent
that's why I'm kind of drawing it like
this it has some kind of a number
of
pixels okay and we have some kind of a
depth and this depth is definitely um
something that I need to control uh
because uh uh it's one of my main design
parameters I'll be calling this depth
ML and evidently we have a
different HL and WL
dimensions and this is basically my uh
you know volumes input and output
volumes in general going to have input
and output fors so um the question I
actually have right now is to understand
a little bit about the depth of the
filter and we have three options either
the depth of the filter will actually be
uh deeper than the input feature map uh
shallower than the input feature map or
exactly the same depth as the input
feature map so let's try to do some kind
of reasoning over here does it make any
sense for the filter to be deeper than
the input feature map and
if you think about it the answer is no
it does not really make a lot of sense
because uh at the end of the day we are
going to be correlating the contents of
that filter uh with the contents of the
input feature map and if the filter is
actually deeper then uh we are not going
to be picking up anything from the input
feature map because we are going to uh
so why have it deeper okay so you know
there's no point of of doing so if it is
shallower than the input feature map
also it does not really make a lot of
sense because uh we are going to leave
content uh that the input feature map U
contains for us uh on the table so uh
the so the only reasonable assumption is
this filter to
be exactly the same in terms of the
input feature map depth right in terms
of this terms of depth of the input F
map so it's just basically draw it as as
such and uh it in fact it is really this
filter uh that is going to be
a going to be the uh the one that we are
going to be using to do this kind of a
three-dimensional kind of a correlation
over here now to understand the contents
of that correlation is kind of important
and what is actually even more important
to understand what it will generate as
we will see shortly what it will not
generate it will not generate the whole
volume over here but it will actually
generate only one slice out of that
output volume okay to understand that
kind of important Point uh let's uh do
the following let me take uh the uh um
um sort of so for that specific snapshot
that I'm actually uh right now I'm
generating the
specific let me drew that like uh like
there some
uh
specific result which is a scaler
therefore it's a result of a single
Pixel uh from this column which is
located at the coordinate I comma
J so specially wise and I hope you
remember what we have seen earlier in
the uh sort of example architecture
sorry in the CNN architecture diagram uh
we are let just show you U that kind of
diagram again for that specific snapshot
let's say the blue La snapshot I'm
actually generating this scalar result
um and using just one uh kernel a filter
of depth one in this case so as it will
actually as it actually turns out uh
that fil uh that
filter uh at that specific snapshot it
will do a three-dimensional correlation
and it will
still generate a single scaler uh for me
okay and that single scalar will be at a
specific depth okay uh and the special
coordinates of that scalar is I comma J
that the one I just drew now uh we will
call that depth with an index in a
moment but what I want to um do here is
to just draw the complete
column
of pixels at I comma J
location let me just rotate them this
column
90 and write it over here it will be
evidently this Dimension will be ml the
depth Dimension and this is the uh
because we are correspond to the earth
layer and let me just do exactly the
same thing with the filter so I'm
actually taking the filter and uh
decompose it it over here to the 3X3
Kels that it
contains and so these are going to be my
uh
3x3 uh
kernels and this will
be of
Dimension uh ml
minus1 so just took the filter rotated
90 and just decompos into its Kels this
is the L minus one
layer and so um since I'm going to be
generating a scaler let's assume that
I'm generating right now at that
specific snap sort uh the this is the I
comma J coordinate this is the column
that corresponds to the E layer and the
I comma J
coordinate let's assume that I'm
generating this scalar over here this
scalar is going to be represented by the
letter
Z and we'll have evidently I comma J as
a special
coordinates and we have a depth
coordinate which I will designate with
the letter
KL and evidently 1 is less than or equal
to KL is less than or equal to
ml and this will actually be the uh uh
values that the KL index which is the
depth index um can
take and I will actually be using also a
corresponding index uh to address each
one of those uh Kels which are going to
be used um for the uh determining that
kind of scalar Z so that scalar Z is
going to
be produced by using all of the Kels of
the the
filter and uh I am going to also need to
Define to Define two other
indexes the first index is going to be U
and the other index going to be V and
this indices will actually be used to as
spatial coordinates of the kernel okay
so my
equation so is the following so given I
comma
J comma KL given in other words the
coordinates of
the scalar which I want to
generate my scalar z i comma J comma KL
are going to be given by three
summations the first two summations I
have seen already in the plain two-
dimensional correlation operation the
one that we just did in an in a earlier
so this is
U summation over u and v uh definitely
I'm expecting uh the uh special uh
content of that kind of filter to be
correlated uh and uh therefore dot
product uh to take the dot product with
the contents of the input image okay so
this is the two summations over here uh
but also I'm expecting to now do a
three-dimensional correlation operation
that's a third summation over an index
I'll be calling k l minus1 and this
index
addresses uh the specific kernel which
I'm going to be using so KL minus one is
definitely the less than or equal to one
and less than or equal to ml minus one
in a similar in a similar way as we have
seen earlier so what is this kind of a
correlation it will be
X of I + u j + V
comma
kl-1 time W where W now are the contents
of
the of the um of the
kernel that now has U comma
V comma
KL comma KL
minus1 all right so we have uh in fact
the W is not the cond of the kernel the
cond of the kernel yes we can call them
W but W I would associate W with this
line over here
that for specifying this line I have the
U comma V coordinates spal coordinates
of the kernel uh that specific kernel
however is uh uh provided by this index
is identified by this index so this
specific Kel is by this index and the
scalar it is going to be generating is
uh the located at the KL depth that's
why I need this W of uh Q comma V comma
KL comma KL minus one okay so this will
actually be the
um uh weights uh that are going be so a
four dimensional tensor is being used
here for specifying those uh
parameters uh that that that we are
store in those uh in in those filters
and in fact we only have one filter
right now so a four dimensional tensor
to identify the parameters that we have
used in this specific dot product over
here this is a three-dimensional dot
product and as you can imagine as I'm
sliding the filter uh to another
location um in the next snapshot the
only thing actually is changing is the
space
coordinate that is being produced uh in
this scaler so the only thing so by
moving the filter around I'm changing
the I comma J of what I'm producing
therefore what I'm actually going to be
producing
is a
slice a specific slice out of this uh uh
sort of uh output feature map so the
specific slice I'm just drawing over
here just one of the ml slices
so ml slices generates the complete
volume so this slice is the one that I
am going to be uh generating this
complete slice so effectively a
matrix and uh uh so from one filter I'll
be generating a single Matrix and
therefore and this is the important
conclusion from uh we
need
multiple we need multiple
filters to
generate the
output
feature map
volume so for a volume for the whole
thing for the output feature map we need
to be creating multiple fatures in fact
this thing over here
is really the connectivity diagram of uh
the convolutional neuron what we call a
convolutional a single filter is and the
operation actually we see over here is
the operation of the convolutional
neuron um and this is um all of these
parameters that we have used over here
the contents if you like the filter are
the so-called trainable parameters
and uh we will now uh see an animation
of of this thing uh in uh in our core
site so if I go to my core site and
actually scroll down a little bit then
you can see now the
three-dimensional um so first of all
before we see the animation we can
actually see it's exactly the diagram I
just drew a bit a different I have an
input volume uh which is the blue over
here with has a depth D
in uh definitely as we mentioned the
input uh sorry the filter that we're
going to be using has the same depth D
in as the input volume doesn't make
sense
otherwise and then in terms of the
output volume a single filter is going
to be generating one slice out of the D
out slices so on one slices let's say
this specific Matrix over here where my
mouse pointer is that is going to be
what is going to be produced by a single
filter and this dotted line here
indicates that if you want to generate
the complete output uh volume with a
depth D out you need D out of these
filters you need D out of these orange
cubes in order for you to be able to
generate a complete green uh output uh
feature map so I think it's worth
spending some time in this animation in
this animation you can actually see
exactly what what I just discussed here
in this example I have an input feature
map of depth
three uh and I have a output feature map
of depth two let's assume that that is
the uh sort of a design parameter which
I want to implement uh therefore if I
have an output feat map of two I need
two filters and these are the two
filters this is the filter w0 and this
is the filter
W1 and uh evidently the each each of
these filters has of dep depth three
because three is also the depth of the
input feature map and at every specific
snapshot let's assume this is the
snapshot that I just drew on piece of
paper this uh filter is located at this
specific uh location in my input feature
map and it is responsible for creating
this scalar Z which is nine in this case
okay so if I may uh and and and as far
as the output feature map is concerned
this filter is
only uh able to plot if you like to
determine the this specific slice of the
output feature
map uh if I want to continue then we
will see that the second filter is the
one which is involved in the creation of
of the second slice of the output
feature this is really the essence of a
three-dimensional convolution I suggest
that you spend some time on this
animation trying to understand what is
what is going on and you can toggle the
movement just to be able to replicate
the output scaler uh from the input
values which have been provided over
here a bit on this presentation of the
snapshot operation of a layer uh the
site over here has uh is squatting some
kind of important formulas regarding the
size the special dimensions of the
output feature map I think it's
important to uh note them down um and so
uh it is uh the floor of the height of
the input feure map plus two * the
padding size minus the kernel size
divided by the strides
uh and plus one okay so this is the
formula that will uh that you can
actually use to understand exactly what
will be your output feature maps are in
terms of spatial dimensions and of
course this will be the input feature
map sizes uh for the for the layer that
follows um okay so what will actually be
those layers I think um it's uh you know
it's quite important to get into the U
discussion now about other architectural
features before we go into uh some kind
of a discussion about the advantages of
convolution layers as compared to fully
connected layers which I think is best
uh demonstrated using an example before
we go into that example let's uh look at
another um operation that we'll be
calling uh the max pulling layer or in
general pulling layer uh which is
actually described here and it's best
demonstrated with this kind of image um
and this this case what we see we have
an input feature map uh that uh has a
depth of one in this case and uh we do
still have the concept of if you like of
a kernel that we slide around just like
in the convolutional layer uh but in
this case instead of a nonlinear
function uh like a reu that we have
actually also seen in the fully
connected layers that uh we are still
going to see in the evolutional layer uh
as we will uh see in that example we
will have another function uh let's call
that function in this specific case it's
shown as the max function uh where the
the idea behind this is that uh we are
going to um not form a correlation
result over here uh like a DOT product
but we're going to select the maximum
element of what we see in the input uh
feature map typically we apply the that
function at for each of of the channels
of the input feature map but in some
instances we may apply it also across
the depth Dimension what we are
achieving is evidently we are achieving
some reduction in the um uh spatial
dimensions of the uh output feature map
and uh that kind of intuitively
understood as trying to select the most
important features of the input feature
map and transfer out into the layer
above for further process say okay so
that is the uh Max pooling layer in this
case which is typically interl with
convolutional layers as we will see in
some example architectures closing I
want to emphasize the another U kind of
specific parameterization of the
convolutional layer we call here the one
by one convolutional layer um and it is
definitely a a sort of a layer that it
is um being met in various kind of
architect lectures and and maybe it does
not really make a lot of sense to you
the moment you see this kind of
Animation over here why in Earth we're
going to do one by one convolutions uh
since we as we discussed we're trying to
detect features and typically the kernel
sizes have larger Dimensions than one by
one but I think um the the explanation
potentially could be uh more intuitively
understood if we see the
three-dimensional version of uh of this
one by one convolution so we have a see
here the uh orange U filter that
evidently the K size is one by one um
and we have as we discussed earlier
depth D that matches the depth of the
input feature map and as we also
discussed earlier the um um the this
filter operation will move around uh we
we're sliding around this filter and
we're creating one slice
uh for for this filter so in this one by
one convolution we have just one slice
and as you can see what we are achieving
here we are forming a scalar uh by
combining uh the uh depth compressing
the whole depth Dimension so we actually
have uh we are seeing typically this uh
type of uh layers let's say towards the
end of an network uh the top of the
network where we uh just before the head
where we want to just uh summarize
everything we have done uh and we have
learned in terms of uh U convolutions
operations and across all depth
Dimensions that we have uh uh decided to
do and then we just need to compress
that information to a matrix and
potentially that kind of uh slice um is
going to be flattened in order to be
passed over into the
head uh which may consist of fully
connected layers as we'll see that in a
moment okay so that's one application of
the one by one convol uh convolution
operation all right so um it it it kind
of looks like an multi-layer Petron or a
dense layer as it is combining these uh
depth Dimensions into that scaler all
right so um let's now see some example
architectures uh these example
architectures um could potentially be
like the toy Network that we see here um
where we have uh as we discussed the
convolutional layer followed by
nonlinearity and Max pulling layers and
finally at the end we expect to see a
fully connected uh layer that is going
to play the uh the role of the of the
head of the network uh where we have
let's say in this case uh five classes
that we would like to do a
classification on but uh instead of
looking at this toy Network work and I
think it's a bit more instructive to
look at uh I will call it canonical
architecture called vgg from the
initials of the uh authors uh of that
kind of architecture this architecture
uh is um I call an architecture that I
suggest students to start from every
time they want to look at these
convolutional uh networks because they
do represent some kind of a initial good
architecture that we can uh sort of make
some conclusions in regarding the
dimensionality and the patterns that we
expect to see in a typical uh CNN
architecture instead of looking if you
like in the most modern uh versions of
CNN I think it's worthwhile looking at
this uh to understand a couple of things
so the first thing that we'd like to um
capture over here is this image uh and
understand what is really
happening okay so uh the image is uh the
in this figure we see um a CNN layer uh
so a CNN Network that consist of
multiple layers and one striking thing
from the get-go that you can see is that
the CNN is um the
dimensionality of the CNN is in terms of
spatial Dimensions is evidently
shrinking as we are going deeper so we
see the uh convolutional layers followed
by Max pulling
layers U for and then towards the end we
see the fully connected uh network uh
which is the head so in terms of spatial
Dimensions we are actually uh decreasing
the spatial Dimensions because evidently
we are using Kels which are larger than
one by one and
uh and but on at the same time what we
are also are seeing is we see an
increase in the depth Dimension so in
terms of numbers over here 224x 224
pixels are the spatial dimensions of the
input
images um and then uh
um and then we have a 64 to be the depth
dimension of the or equivalent the
number of neurons in the U that we have
in or the number of filters that we have
in in that layer so this is also our
responsibility so our responsibility are
twofold one is to with a padding and
stride parameters to massage these kind
of special dimensions we need and at the
same time also select the number of
filters how many any convolutional
neurons are we going to engage in that
layer so as you can see we go from 64
128 256 512 that is really the uh end
game with respect to number of filters
the intuition behind the increase in the
number of filters as the network becomes
uh becomes deeper and deeper is the
following the network is learning more
and more complicated features as we are
going deeper the first layers are uh the
um are are learning representations
which are uh simple shapes I will call
it similar things that you would expect
to uh uh for you to understand when you
look at if you like at a kind of a
primitive shape like a circle uh a
triangle or whatever have you and the uh
subsequent kind of layers are actually
learning more and more complicated
representations we'll see in a moment
some examples of exactly what these
layers are learning and by suitable
visualizations so as you are trying to
uh create uh combinations of these
simpler representations you probably
need all to be doing more of those
combinations as you go deeper because uh
you are trying to understand whether or
not there's one combination that
actually magically generating the right
set of representations in subsequent
deeper layers such that your head can
actually do the job so that's the first
uh intuition
regarding the um uh increase in the
depth of the um of the of the filters
the second is that you can afford to I
mean you can afford having uh that kind
of increase in the depth of the filter
uh and without really paying too much uh
complexity uh performance sorry
complexity in the in the terms of number
of operations because your special
dimensions uh of the feature Maps which
are produced from a earlier uh
operations are shrinking so you increase
the number of uh filter parameters and
still you're not really paying
any any any complexity this sort of
penalty because of that okay so these
are the two uh things that we need we
can actually mention about this kind of
architecture that looks again like a
pyramid but this pyramid is a kind of
works in a different way um as as
compared to what we have seen in fully
connected architect pictures and now um
I think it's worthwhile spending some
time on U uh on on an example and this
example is um a a python
notebook this example is actually shown
over here you can actually click on this
and uh open it in poab for execution uh
however the notebook in your case over
here will actually be working as it is
so in uh the next video we'll go through
this example and then see exactly what's
going on uh in terms of uh and the API
and the implementation of a CNN